---
title: Roadmap 2021
layout: post
nav_show: false
author: Alex Chermenin
description: Our plans for 2021.
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

The following roadmap gives an overview of what we are currently working on and what we want to tackle next. This helps
potential contributors understand the current status of your project and where it’s going next, as well as giving
a chance to be part of the planning.

## General vision

| Shift the approach for data pipelines from schemaless (`PCollection`) to the schemed side (`DataFrame`) and SQL-like queries to be more productive in data processing and to be more similar to other tools and make it easier to move from such tools to Kio and Beam |

## Current focus

### Schemed collection support

_What:_ We want to create a wrapper for the schemed collections called `DataFrame` and implement SQL-like methods for
data processing (similar to Spark or Pandas).

_Status:_ in progress

### Connectors development

_What:_ It's necessary to cover all connectors implemented in Beam at least and create a good documentation for that.

_Status:_ in progress

### CEP improvements

_What:_ It would be great to extend the CEP library to support more complex patterns to match.

_Status:_ planning

### Testing

_What:_ We want to increase code coverage by tests and after that keep in this certain level of coverage.

_Status:_ planning

## Next steps

### REPL

_What_: The REPL (maybe will be called `kio-shell`) will be a great tool to analyze data interactively using the
command line without having to write any code in an IDE and compile it before running.

_Status_: not planned yet

## How to get involved?

Let us know in [Gitter](https://gitter.im/chermenin-kio/community) or in the Slack channels
(`#beam-kotlin` in [ASF](https://the-asf.slack.com/) or `#kotlin-beam` in [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/))
if you are interested in taking a stab at leading the development of one of these features or just want to help us
in the development process.

And of course, feel free to submit new issues and pull requests to our repository
on GitHub: https://github.com/chermenin/kio. More information you can find in
the [Contribute]({{ '/documentation/' | absolute_url }}#contribute) section.
